Update fastspeech2 model card (#37377)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/fastspeech2_conformer.md

    </div>
</div>

# FastSpeech2Conformer

[FastSpeech2Conformer](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.13956) is a non-autoregressive text-to-speech (TTS) model that combines FastSpeech2's architecture with conformer blocks for improved performance.

FastSpeech2Conformer can synthesize speech significantly faster than autoregressive models while maintaining high quality. Unlike the original FastSpeech, it trains directly on ground-truth data and incorporates speech variation information like pitch, energy, and duration for more natural-sounding output. The conformer architecture combines the strengths of convolution and attention mechanisms to better capture both local and global dependencies in speech.

You can find the FastSpeech2Conformer checkpoints under the [ESPnet](https://huggingface.co/espnet) organization.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the FastSpeech2Conformer models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply FastSpeech2Conformer to different text-to-speech tasks.

The example below demonstrates how to generate speech from text with [`Pipeline`] and [`AutoModel`].

<hfoptions id="usage">

> <hfoption id="Pipeline">

Reviewer: @eustlb, would you mind taking a look at why the code is failing here? It returns a `AttributeError: 'FastSpeech2ConformerConfig' object has no attribute 'model_config'` error which seems to be available [here](https://huggingface.co/espnet/fastspeech2_conformer/blob/main/config.json). Thanks!

```py
# pip install -U -q g2p-en
import torch
import soundfile as sf
from transformers import pipeline, FastSpeech2ConformerHifiGan

vocoder = FastSpeech2ConformerHifiGan.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_hifigan")
synthesiser = pipeline(task="text-to-audio", model="espnet/fastspeech2_conformer", vocoder=vocoder, device=0, torch_dtype=torch.float16)
speech = synthesiser("Hello, my dog is cooler than you!")
sf.write("speech.wav", speech["audio"].squeeze(), samplerate=speech["sampling_rate"])
```

```py
from transformers import pipeline
import soundfile as sf

# Initialize the TTS pipeline
synthesizer = pipeline("text-to-speech", model="espnet/fastspeech2_conformer")

# Generate speech
speech = synthesizer("Hello, my dog is cute.")

# Save the audio to a file
sf.write("speech.wav", speech["audio"], samplerate=speech["sampling_rate"])
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="AutoModel">

Reviewer: Let's use the combined version so its easier:

```py
# pip install -U -q g2p-en
import soundfile as sf
import torch
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, FastSpeech2ConformerWithHifiGan

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer")
model = FastSpeech2ConformerWithHifiGan.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_with_hifigan", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto")

inputs = tokenizer("Hello, my dog is cute.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
input_ids = inputs["input_ids"]

output_dict = model(input_ids, return_dict=True)
waveform = output_dict["waveform"]
sf.write("speech.wav", waveform.squeeze().detach().numpy(), samplerate=22050)
```

Author: Done!

inputs = tokenizer("Hello, my dog is cute.", return_tensors="pt")
input_ids = inputs["input_ids"]

output_dict = model(input_ids, return_dict=True)
spectrogram = output_dict["spectrogram"]

from transformers import FastSpeech2ConformerHifiGan
hifigan = FastSpeech2ConformerHifiGan.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_hifigan")
waveform = hifigan(spectrogram)

sf.write("speech.wav", waveform.squeeze().detach().numpy(), samplerate=22050)
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

For a more streamlined experience, you can use the combined model with the HiFi-GAN vocoder in a single step:

```python
from transformers import FastSpeech2ConformerTokenizer, FastSpeech2ConformerWithHifiGan
import soundfile as sf

tokenizer = FastSpeech2ConformerTokenizer.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer")
model = FastSpeech2ConformerWithHifiGan.from_pretrained("espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_with_hifigan")

inputs = tokenizer("Hello, my dog is cute.", return_tensors="pt")

output_dict = model(inputs["input_ids"], return_dict=True)
waveform = output_dict["waveform"]

sf.write("speech.wav", waveform.squeeze().detach().numpy(), samplerate=22050)
```

## Notes

> - FastSpeech2Conformer uses a non-autoregressive architecture, making it significantly faster than autoregressive TTS models like Tacotron.
> - The model combines a duration predictor, pitch predictor, and energy predictor to control various aspects of speech generation.

Reviewer: Can remove these since they aren't directly related to usage.

```suggestion
```

> - For optimal audio quality, make sure to use the matching HiFi-GAN vocoder (`espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_hifigan`).
> - To improve generation speed, consider using the combined model (`FastSpeech2ConformerWithHifiGan`) which handles both spectrogram generation and vocoding in a single step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the matching [HiFi-GAN vocoder](https://huggingface.co/espnet/fastspeech2_conformer_hifigan) for optimal audio quality.
- Use the combined model, [`FastSpeech2ConformerWithHiFiGan`], for faster generation speed since it handles both spectrogram generation and vocoding in a single step.
- You could also use the [`FastSpeech2ConformerModel`] and [`FastSpeech2ConformerHiFiGan`] separately as shown below.
   <add code snippet here>
```
